IMP
TK includes mental inventories of local biological resources, animal breeds, and local plant, crop, and tree species.
include such information as which trees and plants grow well together and which are “indicator plants”.
includes practices and technologies, such as seed treatment and storage methods and tools used for planting and harvesting. 
It also encompasses belief systems that play a fundamental role in peoples’ livelihoods, maintain their health, and protect and replenish the environment. 
TK is collective in nature and is often considered the property of the entire community, not belonging to any single individual within the community.

PRESER
The protection of TK is a framework that encourages the maintenance of traditional practices, culture and knowledge. 
In this sense, the concept of ‘protection’ is quite different from the concept applied under IPRs. 
The preservation of TK is not only a key element of the right to self-identification and a pre-requisite for the continuous existence of traditional 
people and indigenous communities, but also a vital element of the cultural heritage of humanity. 




Which countries use TK
we know ind n chine have rich tradition medicine n we use traditional medicine frm centuries however we can see western countries use the TM and CAM
In China, traditional medicine accounts for around 40% of all health care delivered. 
In Chile 71% of the population, and in Colombia 40% of the population, have used such medicine. 
In India, 65% of the population in rural areas use Ayurveda and medicinal plants to help meet their primary health care needs. 
In developed countries, traditional, complementary and alternative medicines are becoming more popular. 
For example, the percentage of the population that has used such medicines at least once is 48% in Australia, 31% in Belgium, 70% in Canada, 49% in
France and 42% in the United States of America. 



Regulation of TK by WHO
why 
WHO data from 2012 strongly suggest that state regulators across the globe are seeking additional guidance to assist with the implementation of 
T&CM professional regulations.
Notably, 88% and 52% of nation states surveyed identified a “lack of research data” and 
a “lack of expertise within national health authorities and control agencies,” respectively, as a significant challenge in this regard. 
Similarly, the majority of nation states surveyed characterized “information sharing on (T&CM professional) regulatory issues” (81%) 
and “national capacity building seminar/workshop on (T&CM professional) regulations” (75%) as a priority.




Regulations
National regulatory systems on traditional medicine vary considerably worldwide.
These range from an absence of regulation to highly structured regulation similar to that
applied to pharmaceuticals. WHO notes that an appropriate legal and regulatory
infrastructure for TM is vital in “promoting and maintaining good practice; assuring
authenticity, safety and efficacy of traditional and complementary/alternative therapies; and
providing equitable access to health care resources and information about those
resources.”73
1. DATA EXCLUSIVITY
	Data-based exclusivity prevents generic drug manufacturers from making use
		of data submitted in an initial application by an originator pharmaceutical manufacturer for a
		fixed period of time
	If TMK holders are required to submit information to regulatory agencies for
		marketing approval of traditional medicines, they should be aware of whether that data will
		be kept confidential.
2. REGULATION IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
	In the United States of America, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the
		government agency primarily responsible for regulating foods and medicines
	Responsible for regulating dietary supplements, such as herbal medicines, under the Dietary
		Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) of 1994
	Case of FUSING SCIENCE AND TRADITION
	In 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first botanical
		pharmaceutical drug, Veregen (sinecatechins), a purified green tea extract for the topical
		treatment of warts.
	In 2012, the FDA approved a second botanical prescription drug: Fulyzaq(crofelemer).
		Fulyzaq is indicated to relieve symptoms of diarrhea in HIV/AIDS patients
		taking medicines to treat HIV infection.
3. REGULATION IN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
	In the European Union (EU), two general pathways exist for authorizing medicinal products: 
		a centralized and a mutual recognition procedure. Under the centralized procedure, 
		companies submit a single marketing authorization application to the EuropeanMedicines Agency (EMA), 
		which is the agency that coordinates the evaluation and
		supervision of medicinal products throughout the EU.
	Marketing authorization applications for herbal medicines must fall within one of three categories: 
	1) full dossier with product-specific safety and efficacy data, 
	2) well-established use with sufficient safety and efficacy data, or 
	3) traditional use with sufficient safety data and plausible efficacy (simplified registration procedure).
	Because product-specific safety and efficacy data is rarely available, most herbal medicines are approved for wellestablished or traditional use.
4. REGULATION IN CHINA
	The most important agencies in China for the regulation of traditional medicine are
		the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) and the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine (SATCM).
	The SFDA and SATCM both formulate regulations and good practices relevant to TCM and supervise implementation.
	Generally, traditional Chinese medicines are regulated as drugs and must adhere to many of the regulations for pharmaceutical medicines. 
	For a traditional Chinese medicine to be marketed as a drug it must first be approved
		by the SFDA. A Pharmacopoeia of the People’s Republic of China contains a list of the
		TCM preparations that have already been approved. Without preexisting approval, the new
		approval process is extensive and similar to the approval process of pharmaceuticals.
5. REGULATION IN INDIA
	Traditional medicines may be regulated as prescription drugs, over-the-counter
		medicines or dietary supplements and marketed with medical, health or nutrient content
		claims respectively.
	Modern regulations on traditional medicine began with the Drugs and
		Cosmetics Act of 1940, which contained a separate chapter and rules for Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani drugs.
	The Act, amended in 2000, requires government licensing of manufacturers and sellers of traditional medicines. 
		contains regulations for misbranded and adulterated drugs, prohibits the manufacture and sale of certain drugs, and stipulates
		penalties for regulatory violations. The central government is also empowered to inspect and analyze traditional medicines. 
	Manufacturers of traditional medicines are now required to adhere to good
		manufacturing practices, as well as requirements related to factory premises and heavy
		metal contents. 
	The Department of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) is primarily responsible for the regulation of traditional medicines.
6. REGULATION IN BRAZIL
	National traditional medicine guidelines have existed in Brazil since 1967, and were most recently updated in 2004.
	These guidelines establish the core components of
		traditional medicine regulation such as proper botanical identification of medicines, basic
		quality standards and the need to ensure safety and efficacy. In addition, several
		complementary guidelines named Resoluções Específicas contain additional regulations and
		relevant information. 
	The principal authority for regulation of traditional medicine is the Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária (ANVISA). 
	Under these regulations, traditional medicines can be regulated as prescription and
		over-the-counter drugs, functional foods, probiotics, bioactive substances and cosmetics. 
	Producers may prefer to register traditional medicines as foods or cosmetics because
		quality and safety requirements are simpler
7. TRADITIONAL SYSTEMS OF REGULATION
	Customary laws and practices may govern how TMK is developed and transmitted in local communities.
	For example, TMK may be passed down only among family members
		or specific individuals within a healing tradition. Exclusive rights and monopoly powers over 
		TMK are not uncommon within traditional communities.
	Alternately, TMK may be considered communal property of an indigenous group. 
	Traditional systems of regulation may place restrictions on how TMK can be used or disseminated. 
	In North American societies, traditional Native American healers possess the ability
		to make “medicine bundles”. These contain a variety of materials such as animal skins and
		talismans that are important for communal and personal activities.