TM/CAM
Traditional medicine is becoming more popular in the north and up to 80% of people in the south use it as part of primary health care. 
	The situation has given rise to concerns among health practitioners and consumers on the issue of safety, above all, but also on questions of policy, 
	regulation, evidence, biodiversity and preservation and protection of traditional knowledge.
The World Health Organization (WHO) today releases a global plan to address those issues. 
	The strategy provides a framework for policy to assist countries to regulate traditional or complementary/alternative medicine (TM/CAM) 
	to make its use safer, more accessible to their populations and sustainable.
In developing countries, where more than one-third of the population lacks access to essential medicines, 
	the provision of safe and effective TM/CAM therapies could become a critical tool to increase access to health care. 
But while traditional medicine has been fully integrated into the health systems of China, North and South Korea and Viet Nam, 
	many countries have not collected and standardized evidence on this type of health care.
As well as addressing chronic conditions, TM can also impact on infectious diseases. 
	In Africa, North America and Europe, 
		three out of four people living with HIV/AIDS use some form of traditional or complementary treatment for various symptoms and conditions. 
	In South Africa, the Medical Research Council is conducting studies on the plant Sutherlandia microphylla’s efficacy in treating AIDS patients. 
		Traditionally used as a tonic, this plant may increase energy, appetite and body mass in people living with HIV.

The WHO TM/CAM strategy aims to assist countries to:
- develop national policies on the evaluation and regulation of TM/CAM practices;
- create a stronger evidence base on the safety, efficacy and quality of the TM/CAM products and practices;
- ensure availability and affordability of TM/CAM, including essential herbal medicines;
- promote therapeutically sound use of TM/CAM by providers and consumers.

in 2014-23 the goals were
Harnessing the potential contribution
	of T&CM to health, wellness, peoplecentred health care and universal health coverage
Promoting safe and effective use of T&CM through the regulation, research and integration of T&CM
	products, practices and practitioners into the health system, as appropriate

https://www.who.int/global_health_histories/seminars/Dr_Zhangs_Presentation_GHHSeminar_86.pdf